---
title: "On Virtue"
cover: "2019-07-27/boetheus.png"
category: "philosophy"
date: "2019-07-27"
tags:
  - philiosphy
  - classical
---

## Virtue in Applied Philosophy

I'm currently going through Daniel N. Robinson's lectures on "The Great Ideas of Philiosphy, 2nd Edition". Given that I work in software, my line of work is essentially applied philiosphy. Thus some of the questions I'd like to explore in the next few blog posts will deal with the following:

- In a more general systems sense, what is virtue?
- And what is its relation to tech-debt?
- What is knowledge and how does a corporate system acquire it? (aka "applied" question of epistomolgy)
- How should a system structure itself with respect to its components? (aka the "applied" question of ethics / morality)

Because the topics I'm currently studying is quite abstract and I truly don't know enough to be able to string them all together into a coherent narrative, this post will be pretty eclectic

## The emergence of systems from its parts

Before we can answer the questions above, I will need to try understand where systems come from. To do this, I might a well start from the beginning. The assumptions I make here are that:

- "Understanding" is possible even without understanding what "understanding" actuall is
- Platonic "forms" (aka "ideas" or "memes" in today's diction) are useful

First, let's consider how memes (aka forms) interact with the real (material) world. The model of software on hardware provides a great example

```typescript
// M is any material; it "extends" Object in the sense
// that it can exist objectively - whatever that means
type Affect = (m: Set<PhysicalObject>) => Set<PhysicalObject>
type PhysicalObject = {
  charge: number,
  spin: number,
  // Whatever else basis we might consider "elementary"
}
type PhysicalProcess = <O extends PhysicalObject>(state: Set<O>, allowedActions: Set<Affect>) => [Set<O>, Set<Affect>]
```

In this conception, we can think of our world as a `Set<PhyiscalProcess>`. A `meme` is a special type of affect that can be replicated such that:

```purescript
let p: PhysicalProcess = someProcess;
let memes: Set<Affect> = allAffects -> filter(memberOfActionsBefore(p) && memberOfActionsAfter(p))
```

In other words, a meme 

>Note: see the appendix for where I attempt to break down "understanding" and try to get out of the infinite regress of "forms"

## Appendix

### Understanding understanding

Here I attempt to understand what it means for a system to understand. 

TBD

### Atomic forms

Here I attempt to find what the "kernel" form is; for example, is Decarte's meme kernel "I think therefore I am" good enough for my purposes?

TBD

## References

- [Great ideas of modern philiosphy](https://www.audible.com/pd/The-Great-Ideas-of-Philosophy-2nd-Edition-Audiobook/B00DDVSD34?pf_rd_p=ae76b2bb-e63d-4a67-b357-dab3dee05ca1&pf_rd_r=SMG7YAX86SNTKTVWBHQW&ref=a_lib_c4_libItem_B00DDVSD34)
- [Law school for everyone](https://www.audible.com/pd/Law-School-for-Everyone-Audiobook/B0758MV7WM?pf_rd_p=ae76b2bb-e63d-4a67-b357-dab3dee05ca1&pf_rd_r=SMG7YAX86SNTKTVWBHQW&ref=a_lib_c4_libItem_B0758MV7WM)
- [mermaid js docs](https://mermaidjs.github.io/)
